# Predicting-the-Future-Bike-Shares
The data from cycling dataset was grouped by "Start time", which represented the count of new bike shares grouped by hour. As part of Exploratory Data Analysis, analyzed the shape, feature size and statistics for the bike sharing dataset. Converted the timestamp column to actual timestamp datatype because as per the requirement the dataset needs to be sorted based on time slots from old to new before splitting into test and train. Checked if there were any categorical variables in the dataset so that those can be processed accordingly during Feature Engineering. Checked for duplicates and Null values. Found correlation between the attributes using Correlation Matrix. As part of Feature Engineering, sorted the dataset based on timestamp in ascending order. Applied assert_true (a unit test library function in Python used in unit testing to compare test value with true) to check and confirm whether the columns “timestamp”, “isholiday” and “isweekend” are present. Created a derived column based on “is_holiday” and “is_weekend” to find out a working-day/non-working day pattern with respect to the bike sharing counts. Also, the timestamp column has been disintegrated to month, year, hour, and night_hour to learn about more hidden patterns (if any) in the dataset. This enabled the machine learning algorithms to easily learn the underlying patterns till the lowest level of granularity in the timestamp column. Splitted the dataset into test and train. Checked the RMSLE scores with parameter greater_is_better=False for some ML models.
